hi my name is michael burton with
michaelburtonfilms.org located in salt
lake city utah and we're here talking
about how to use Microsoft Windows now I
want to talk to you about how to move a
file from one spot to another folder
there's a couple ways to do this it's
fairly simple but I'm going to show you
as many methods as I can to do this let
me start out by saying that Windows XP
is a registered trademark of Microsoft
and I am in no way affiliated with
Microsoft so now I'm going to show you
how to move a file to another folder
probably the easiest way to do this
would be to first pick your folder
figure out where you want to or you know
pick your folder know which file you
want to move for example right here on
the desktop I have this file called
video 10 we're going to move this video
file into the my videos folder in my My
Documents
so we're going to scroll down here to
the Start menu we're going to bring up
the menu I'm going to scroll up here to
the My Documents folder open this folder
we want to bring it into this my videos
folder right here and now there's a
couple ways we can do this we can either
double click on this folder and which
opens up to my videos folder you can see
my contents and then we could come over
here and take this videos 10 and drag it
on over into the my videos and then drop
it there we go we just added it to the
folder let's go ahead and take that back
out put it right back on the desktop as
you see I'm just clicking and dragging
to the desktop and we're done that's how
you can move that file around if we
click the back button here and come back
to our original My Documents folder
instead of actually going into the my
videos folder we can actually just take
this video 10 drag it on over highlight
the my videos folder and let go of our
left button on our mouse and it
automatically drops and then the folder
now when we double click on the my
videos folder you can see that videos 10
was automatically inserted into the my
videos folder now let's go ahead and
drag and click no actually for example
let me show you this example so now if
we want to get videos 10 back to the
desktop there's a couple ways we do this
what I would normally do is right-click
on on video 10 you can actually scroll
down here to where it says send to and
we can create a shortcut on the desktop
it won't actually send the file
but I'll send a shortcut so now that we
have the videos ten file located under
my documents and in the my videos folder
we have a shortcut created over here for
us on the desktop so if we ever need to
play that video we can double click on
the shortcut on the desktop and it will
automatically play the video but it's
playing it from the my videos folder
that's our shortcut so let's right-click
and delete this okay delete that
shortcut then we're going to drag the
video ten file back over to the desktop
so I can show you another example you
want to be careful when moving file
dragging and dropping for example if you
were to drag-and-drop this video 10 or
you brought it over here to highlight
the my videos but you accidentally
highlighted my music and you didn't
notice right before you let go to the
left button it's going to insert it into
my music instead of my videos and then
your files are going to get messed up
I've had that happened to me a couple
times when I wasn't really paying
attention the other issue is if you were
to open the my videos folder and there
happen to be other folders in there you
want to be careful when dragging and
dropping as to not highlight one of
those folders when you drop it in here
because if there is a folder in this
page it will hide it let's highlight it
let's see if I can show you an example
if we create a new folder let's just
call it new folder now I bring the
videos ten over this page you see if I'm
not careful it'll highlight that new
folder and we don't want to drop it into
that new folder because if you do then
you're going to have to go in and
retrieve it out of that folder another
way to move files from one place to
another is to right-click on the file so
we have this video ten file right here
on the desktop if we were to right click
on this file and we click you can either
click cut or copy cut well out cut will
completely remove it from the desktop
copy we'll just create an exact
duplicate copy so let's try copy we are
then going to come over here to the my
videos we can either right click and
click paste which would automatically
insert the video into the folder or to
make sure that it's done right we can
double click on the my videos folder
open it up and inside this folder we can
right click on the folder and click
paste
now it is creating a copy of our video
10 avi files it's actually going to take
two minutes to create this so I'm going
to cancel this because we don't have two
minutes but it as you can see right down
here it's creating a copy of the video
10 video file into this folder now if we
just wanted to cut this video 10 we
could right click on it go to cut and
then we paste it right over here into
this folder by right clicking and
clicking paste you see how it
automatically brought the video 10 from
the desktop over to the folder though
that's a number of ways to move things
around on your computer to create
different folders and to store the
different files and the different
folders by cutting or copy or click and
dragging there are many different ways
and these are only a few that I've
showed you